README.md, before:

# ASIC cells

**This library has been developed by the [Cognitive Sensor Nodes and Systems lab](https://ei.et.tudelft.nl/Research/theme.php?id=63) at Delft University of Technology.**

This repository contains a set of (System)Verilog modules that can be used in ASIC design. Tests for these modules are also provided and created using [cocotb](https://github.com/cocotb/cocotb).
The modules are divided into the following categories:

## AER (Address Event Representation)

Two modules are present for AER communication: [`high_speed_in_bus`](./src/aer/high_speed_in_bus.v) and [`high_speed_out_bus`](./src/aer/high_speed_out_bus.v). These modules are used to communicate with a chip that uses AER communication. The modules are based on the [AER protocol](https://jamesmccaffrey.wordpress.com/2020/01/03/address-event-representation-for-spiking-neural-networks/) for spiking neural networks.

The in-bus handles the incoming and outgoing request and acknowledge signals, while the out-bus handles the sending of (multiple) output data.

## Clock

The clock directory contains a clock divider ([`clock_divider`](./src/clock/clock_divider.v), number of stages can be specified via a parameter) which consists of multiple [`frequency_divider_stage`](./src/clock/frequency_divider_stage.v) modules. It also has a simple OR gate ([`ext_or_int_clock`](./src/clock/ext_or_int_clock.v)) that switches between an external and internal clock to make SDC constraint definitions easier.

## Clock domain crossing (CDC)

Two domain crossing modules are provided: a [`double_flop_synchronizer`](./src/clock_domain_crossing/double_flop_synchronizer.v) and a [`triple_flop_synchronizer`](./src/clock_domain_crossing/triple_flop_synchronizer.v). For the triple flop synchronizer, there is also a variant where the output goes high if the input toggles: [`triple_flop_toggle_synchronizer`](./src/clock_domain_crossing/triple_flop_toggle_synchronizer.v), while also a wide (multi-bit) version of the double flop synchronizer is provided: [`wide_double_flop_synchronizer`](./src/clock_domain_crossing/wide_double_flop_synchronizer.v). All of these modules can be used to cross from a slow clock domain (input data) to a fast clock domain. For more information about clock domain crossing see [here](https://electrobinary.blogspot.com/2020/06/double-flop-synchronizer.html) for information about a double flop synchronizer and [here](https://www.verilogpro.com/clock-domain-crossing-part-1/) for information about clock domain crossing in general.

## SPI interface

The SPI interface provided in this repository offers the following features:

* Writing to a set of SPI-addressable configuration registers
* Reading from a set of SPI-addressable on-chip registers
* Reading/writing to/from a set of SPI-addressable on-chip memories

The full SPI interface is parametrizable; the main ASIC-side interface can be found in [`spi_client`](./src/spi_interface/spi_client.sv). For writing to a set of addressable configuration registers, for example for controlling the operation of your ASIC, use the [`generate_config_memory.py`](./src/spi_interface/generate_config_memory.py) script to generate the Verilog code for the configuration memory. Similarly, for reading from on-chip registers, [`generate_pointers.py`](./src/spi_interface/generate_pointers.py) can be used to generate the Verilog code for the pointer memory (with pointers values on-chip that can be accessed via an address over SPI are indicated). Finally, a [`memory_manager`](./src/spi_interface/memory_manager.v) module is provided that can be used to read/write to/from on-chip memories: this module should be used in conjunction with the [`spi_clock_barrier_crossing`](./src/spi_interface/spi_clock_barrier_crossing.v) module to cross from the SPI clock domain to the ASIC clock domain while communicating data with the SRAMs.

## SRAM

Two parametrizable SRAM modules are provided: a single port memory with write mask ([`single_port_type_t_sram.sv`](./src/sram/single_port_type_t_sram.sv)) and a dual port memory ([`dual_port_type_t_sram.sv`](./src/sram/dual_port_type_t_sram.sv)) with write mask. Note that the dual port memory supports one read and write in parallel, but not two writes or two reads in parallel.

Commit message:

Make sure project is installable as a Python package

README.md, after:

# ASIC cells

**This library has been developed by the [Cognitive Sensor Nodes and Systems lab](https://ei.et.tudelft.nl/Research/theme.php?id=63) at Delft University of Technology.**

This repository contains a set of (System)Verilog modules that can be used in ASIC design and FPGA prototyping. Tests for these modules are also provided and created using [cocotb](https://github.com/cocotb/cocotb).

## Installation

### Verilog

Simply clone the repository and use `bender update` to install all dependencies.

### Python

To install the basic driver code, use:

`pip install .`

To also install the dependencies for the tests, use:

`pip install . [test]`

## Contents

The Verilog modules are divided into the following categories:

### AER (Address Event Representation)

Two modules are present for AER communication: [`high_speed_in_bus`](./src/aer/high_speed_in_bus.v) and [`high_speed_out_bus`](./src/aer/high_speed_out_bus.v). These modules are used to communicate with a chip that uses AER communication. The modules are based on the [AER protocol](https://jamesmccaffrey.wordpress.com/2020/01/03/address-event-representation-for-spiking-neural-networks/) for spiking neural networks.

The in-bus handles the incoming and outgoing request and acknowledge signals, while the out-bus handles the sending of (multiple) output data.

### Clock

The clock directory contains a clock divider ([`clock_divider`](./src/clock/clock_divider.v), number of stages can be specified via a parameter) which consists of multiple [`frequency_divider_stage`](./src/clock/frequency_divider_stage.v) modules. It also has a simple OR gate ([`ext_or_int_clock`](./src/clock/ext_or_int_clock.v)) that switches between an external and internal clock to make SDC constraint definitions easier.

### Clock domain crossing (CDC)

Two domain crossing modules are provided: a [`double_flop_synchronizer`](./src/clock_domain_crossing/double_flop_synchronizer.v) and a [`triple_flop_synchronizer`](./src/clock_domain_crossing/triple_flop_synchronizer.v). For the triple flop synchronizer, there is also a variant where the output goes high if the input toggles: [`triple_flop_toggle_synchronizer`](./src/clock_domain_crossing/triple_flop_toggle_synchronizer.v), while also a wide (multi-bit) version of the double flop synchronizer is provided: [`wide_double_flop_synchronizer`](./src/clock_domain_crossing/wide_double_flop_synchronizer.v). All of these modules can be used to cross from a slow clock domain (input data) to a fast clock domain. For more information about clock domain crossing see [here](https://electrobinary.blogspot.com/2020/06/double-flop-synchronizer.html) for information about a double flop synchronizer and [here](https://www.verilogpro.com/clock-domain-crossing-part-1/) for information about clock domain crossing in general.

### SPI interface

The SPI interface provided in this repository offers the following features:

* Writing to a set of SPI-addressable configuration registers
* Reading from a set of SPI-addressable on-chip registers
* Reading/writing to/from a set of SPI-addressable on-chip memories

The full SPI interface is parametrizable; the main ASIC-side interface can be found in [`spi_client`](./src/spi_interface/spi_client.sv). For writing to a set of addressable configuration registers, for example for controlling the operation of your ASIC, use the [`generate_config_memory.py`](./src/spi_interface/generate_config_memory.py) script to generate the Verilog code for the configuration memory. Similarly, for reading from on-chip registers, [`generate_pointers.py`](./src/spi_interface/generate_pointers.py) can be used to generate the Verilog code for the pointer memory (with pointers values on-chip that can be accessed via an address over SPI are indicated). Finally, a [`memory_manager`](./src/spi_interface/memory_manager.v) module is provided that can be used to read/write to/from on-chip memories: this module should be used in conjunction with the [`spi_clock_barrier_crossing`](./src/spi_interface/spi_clock_barrier_crossing.v) module to cross from the SPI clock domain to the ASIC clock domain while communicating data with the SRAMs.

### SRAM

Two parametrizable SRAM modules are provided: a single port memory with write mask ([`single_port_type_t_sram.sv`](./src/sram/single_port_type_t_sram.sv)) and a dual port memory ([`dual_port_type_t_sram.sv`](./src/sram/dual_port_type_t_sram.sv)) with write mask. Note that the dual port memory supports one read and write in parallel, but not two writes or two reads in parallel.
